Vivian Nguyen: Hello.
Vivian Nguyen: How are you today.
Interviewee: i'm doing good i'm doing good.
Vivian Nguyen: yeah, thank you for participating.
Interviewee: Of course.
Give me one second.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay.
Vivian Nguyen: So i'll just like start off with some like information and stuff.
Vivian Nguyen: So we're not evaluating you in any way, but we're trying to learn from you about how you look for information on why and what works and what doesn't work for you.
Vivian Nguyen: And, but this we hope we can design better for people like you.
Vivian Nguyen: There are no right or wrong answers here any other questions i'm asking and we're simply interested in understanding how you do things concerning learnings determines.
Vivian Nguyen: Whether it is learning a song or the instrument itself, we will conduct a study mostly as a discussion, so I will ask you to show me how you do things and ask your questions to better understand what you do.
Vivian Nguyen: yeah so this session is gonna be a structured like this will ask you a few general questions.
Vivian Nguyen: about dangerous music and learning it and then we'll go through the activities, you might do when you're learning music.
Vivian Nguyen: And while you're working on the task we'd like you to think out loud, which means you give a running commentary of what's going on in your mind, and you can talk about things you like or don't like and feel free to say anything that comes to your mind.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay, and I will record an audio voice audio recording of you, so that I can go back and review things later for our research.
Vivian Nguyen: We won't use your name in connection with the recordings are the results.
Vivian Nguyen: The audio file will only be used internally and never shared anywhere with anyone.
Vivian Nguyen: So, how does all that, how does all that's up to you answer any questions, and let me know if you don't consent to any part of this.
Interviewee: All sounds good.
Interviewee: No questions.
Vivian Nguyen: Let me I see some math background christiansen.
Vivian Nguyen: So could you tell us your name and your occupation.
Interviewee: My name is [omitted] and I am a student.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay.
Vivian Nguyen: Do you often practice and learn musical instruments tell me about your background of instrument learning.
Interviewee: I I nowadays I don't practice as much, but I have around 10 years of piano and I have roughly six years of playing the flute and in school, and it was in the middle school and high school band for a year.
Interviewee: yeah that's about it.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay.
Vivian Nguyen: So what would you say is the instrument that you are most skilled.
Vivian Nguyen: Are there any instruments, you have always wanted to learn or thought during in the past.
Interviewee: I wanted to learn as a child, I want to learn how to play the violin.
Interviewee: Where I was debating between playing the piano or violin as I only have time for one they ended up put the piano However I realized that most of my friends in high school played the violin Viola sure, so I think I definitely regret.
Interviewee: Not doing both and then.
Vivian Nguyen: I see.
Vivian Nguyen: I think a lot more people play piano.
Interviewee: This is more like a social thing in high school.
Vivian Nguyen: So, if you will think you're cooler if you don't have.
Interviewee: Yes, yes.
interesting.
Vivian Nguyen: So where do you usually learn new songs for your main instrument.
Interviewee: at home.
Interviewee: or before it would be at my piano teachers place.
Interviewee: Where should give me new new music color and I typically would have to choose.
Interviewee: What type of new music, I would really like she's just give me a set of options and I choose nothing, where I was like I definitely want to play like this song I just I was mostly indifferent about everything.
Vivian Nguyen: This music is like accessible to.
Interviewee: music is.
Interviewee: most successful at.
Vivian Nguyen: What do you usually two to learn an instrument.
Interviewee: What, what do you, what do you mean by that.
Vivian Nguyen: Like for.
Vivian Nguyen: methods and ways to learn an instrument.
Interviewee: i'm just.
Interviewee: practicing it over and over again, is.
Interviewee: The language it's a.
Vivian Nguyen: repetitive practicing.
Interviewee: Your repetitive practicing also.
Interviewee: um I would sometimes in the past, I would watch YouTube videos of professional pianos to learn how they play, and then I simply mimic their.
Interviewee: Try to mimic through some.
Vivian Nguyen: who's your favorite professional pianist.
Interviewee: Hello.
Interviewee: he's.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewee: No, I don't happen, I forgot to the time.
I see.
Vivian Nguyen: This is the only instrument you use like at the moment, and you share this with other people were talking about the piano.
Interviewee: I, this is the only instrument I use right now, and only I use it.
Vivian Nguyen: I see and how much time per week to play the piano.
Interviewee: Currently, are in this.
Vivian Nguyen: Currently.
Vivian Nguyen: Currently in the past and hours.
Interviewee: You say in the past that the.
Interviewee: An hour predict.
Interviewee: But now it's probably be like an hour recently would be like an hour approach week i'd say.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay, so I want to like a more specific set of questions.
Vivian Nguyen: How often like throughout your daily life, to set aside time to learn a musical instrument or a new song.
Interviewee: um maybe like I said the weekend we'd like to this to learn a new song.
Interviewee: And last round.
Vivian Nguyen: Work for you, and do you like how successful looking at like specific sheet music to play, or when you want to figure out what something means.
Interviewee: i'm regarding the sheet music, I would say it is half.
Interviewee: X, accessible and have an accessible simple because the main website where you can shoot music music score is a little you typically have to I think pay for some of them i'm not sure I haven't really done that.
But.
Interviewee: There, there are some websites there, we can get free sheet music i'd say that, looking at sheet music like typically new ones that you haven't seen before, on your phone or whatever device they're using is a little hard to read and I feel like.
Interviewee: It could be better in that sense, on learning new music.
Vivian Nguyen: What kind of about this, do you usually use for the.
Vivian Nguyen: instrument and songwriting process and what kind of information or tools you.
Vivian Nguyen: need.
Interviewee: Other than repetitive practice.
Interviewee: I would say, a.
Interviewee: teacher is is.
Interviewee: Pretty helpful.
Interviewee: Especially when you don't have that much experience.
Interviewee: and insight instrument and.
Interviewee: Other than YouTube.
Interviewee: i'd say yeah definitely a teacher definitely teach you they can show you live in person.
Interviewee: or over call to tell you, like Okay, this is what you should do in the instant rather than you having to figure out your own mistakes.
Interviewee: yeah.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay.
Vivian Nguyen: So, which resources, which is useless.
Interviewee: To find fine sheet music or, just like in general.
Vivian Nguyen: For like.
Vivian Nguyen: instrument learning and she said.
Interviewee: I would say.
Interviewee: counts, I take YouTube because they usually have the sheet music that they use in the description.
Interviewee: And also it's like a live demonstration of how us on this meant to be played.
as well.
Vivian Nguyen: come to realize that you could use YouTube to I guess like help you in this music learning process.
Interviewee: And it was like I didn't really know what else to do um I just I realized that there are people who produce their own sheet music for free.
Interviewee: and
Interviewee: And it was just like this is pretty convenient i'd say when i'm trying to find a live demonstration of our song, this was to be played and finding new sheet music accessible.
Vivian Nguyen: Accessible she is.
Interviewee: That is, that is where I can, that of which I can print out.
Interviewee: Yes.
Vivian Nguyen: So.
Vivian Nguyen: Do you ever use like Apps or websites to learn music, I know, like guitar tabs it's very.
Interviewee: na part particularly.
Vivian Nguyen: I see.
Vivian Nguyen: um do you read forums, if I answers for your like.
Vivian Nguyen: musical instrument learning related questions.
Interviewee: um sometimes I think.
Interviewee: Three to on.
Interviewee: brother I don't know the specific.
Interviewee: group, but they typically like tell you how, when I had trouble finding my fingering on my own for a music it be like I tend to read it, or like.
Interviewee: The most like optimal way to play a specific song simple because let's say, like the the the chord progression is too big for your hand and beaches, they tell you a more efficient way or more optimal way, if you have smaller hands.
Interviewee: to play that specific music.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay.
Vivian Nguyen: So what the methods that you mentioned, what do you do to get inspired and what motivates you to learn and practice new music.
Interviewee: Mostly just.
Interviewee: i'd say like 5% of it is like a social thing and then the rest of it, I just do for myself, I think that.
Interviewee: I just i'd come across a song that sounds pretty Nice and be like yeah I want to try playing it, I want to try producing the same.
Interviewee: Sound maybe I guess you take.
Interviewee: Online on my own and when when I completely mastered a song I can feel proud of myself and I think that it sounds really nice I can make the music sound how I want it to sound like if I think that.
Interviewee: Like a different iteration of the music played differently would sound better to that and, just like a little bit of experimentation some times.
I see.
Vivian Nguyen: So, in your view, what is the most useful source of information for music, I know you mentioned YouTube but.
Vivian Nguyen: most useful source of influential.
Interviewee: As I am not really.
Interviewee: Because I can have to go through the process of actually learning the music instrument on my own, I always had a teacher there with me I don't think I really had any other website or learning APP.
Interviewee: That I use set up simple because my teacher only recommended me YouTube and honestly, this is like this is the.
Interviewee: most efficient way.
Interviewee: it's like watch them play.
Interviewee: yeah.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay, thank you.
Vivian Nguyen: Know we're gonna move on to some.
Vivian Nguyen: Music learning activities.
Vivian Nguyen: So.
Vivian Nguyen: Right now, I.
Vivian Nguyen: want to give you some time to think about a situation or a time where you want to become more skilled at something.
Vivian Nguyen: which can be anything like getting better at a king or a school subject, how would you like.
Vivian Nguyen: go about finding resources on how to become more skilled at that thing that you're thinking about you can use, like any like websites and think a lot, as your to your test to your liking, think of an example, something you would normally think about like becoming more skilled it.
Interviewee: I I guess you could say learning a new subject like In school I would typically be.
Interviewee: My fourth my first option would obviously search on my.
Vivian Nguyen: own can you show me.
Interviewee: Do the screen.
Vivian Nguyen: Yes.
Interviewee: Okay let's do.
Interviewee: let's do it.
Vivian Nguyen: So, what are you thinking about.
Vivian Nguyen: What do you want to get better.
Interviewee: On.
Interviewee: screen sharing.
Interviewee: yeah.
Interviewee: So, first, I would typically like let's say it would be for um.
Vivian Nguyen: Again, those an example just.
anything.
Vivian Nguyen: anything.
Interviewee: um.
Interviewee: I think like usually.
Interviewee: When I.
Interviewee: i'd say let's say like we.
Interviewee: Typically, if I wanted to get better at this again I would do if I had any specific questions like I want to how I wanted to learn how to.
Interviewee: get better.
Interviewee: CS saying typically I learned that the best way through trial and error.
Interviewee: To usually go on reddit there.
Interviewee: and specifically like.
Interviewee: subreddit called summer school, it would be.
Interviewee: Typically answers it's like a specific reddit answering all your all your questions in depth pretty in depth, simply because when when you're trying to find the answer to question and usually in my perspective, I wanted to be.
Interviewee: In this sense, as are pretty like.
Interviewee: I said no, I when i'm looking for like an answer to something I usually like skim through something skim through the comments section to see like if i'm.
Interviewee: Looking for or if I find the correct answer it should be pretty pretty short ish I would say, are like.
Interviewee: Usually pick the columns.
Interviewee: That.
Interviewee: grabbed my attention are the short ones that are concise.
Interviewee: I want to make sure that.
Interviewee: You.
Interviewee: know and make sure like there are also other comments verifying that credible or it seeing the credibility of a person statement as well, and so it's like.
Interviewee: Take this.
Interviewee: Usually the comments are pretty pretty.
Interviewee: Long most of the time, so I don't usually end up.
Interviewee: Reading everything but usually asked him to comments, if anything, graduate I am i'll read it, and then.
Interviewee: It will then apply it into the game as well and see like hey this really does work out or like if anything if so once i'm done with this and I realized that I cannot learn anything more that we usually ask for it work for.
Interviewee: A coach or something on usually through this read it, there are weekly sessions for people to.
Interviewee: Get coaching from the.
Interviewee: discussion forum.
Interviewee: or like see if you see here and then trigger thread on it's usually like.
Interviewee: that's usually late.
Interviewee: All the people sign up are you basically.
Vivian Nguyen: Hello Hello.
Interviewee: Basically, your information, and then, are you are you finding like a coach that.
Interviewee: intrigues you typically you state, the reason why are like you want to be he wants to be toast and then they will you will you'll meet with your own coach.
Interviewee: And then, once that is done if I still have any questions, then usually it's just repetitive practice and to be contented I would say.
Interviewee: And that is.
Interviewee: Nice typically how it goes.
Vivian Nguyen: Interesting you can do a lot on this reddit subreddit um.
Vivian Nguyen: well.
Vivian Nguyen: I guess like you mentioned like for earlier to.
Vivian Nguyen: Do you think it is like a really good place to learn like more about something you want to get like more experience or skills and.
Interviewee: yeah I would say that.
Interviewee: it's pretty good.
Interviewee: i'm.
Interviewee: Helping you i'd say something, because it's been around for so long and it's basically like.
Interviewee: The it's like a library library of.
Interviewee: knowledge.
Interviewee: Because it's been around for so long, usually there are people with the same questions in the past and.
Interviewee: If there's like a pretty like small question I would say.
Interviewee: Because of how long it's been out for this probably someone who has answered your question or.
Interviewee: or whatever you need thinking mean.
Vivian Nguyen: So what made you think about doing this tough.
Interviewee: Something that I would say that.
Interviewee: whoa What do you mean by something that made me want to do this task.
Interviewee: Like like it's it was just comfort i'm.
Interviewee: done in the past.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay, and how did you decide what mother to use.
Interviewee: I do so, usually I would I try.
Interviewee: I tried asking advice from friends, I tried.
Interviewee: searching online there are forums for this said damn However I realized that a more efficient way, I guess, you could say, is a forum specifically dedicated to.
Interviewee: Learning or answering any of your questions also.
Interviewee: I think that there are like also videos on different.
Interviewee: websites that are designed for you to learn are.
Interviewee: Sometimes a little too long, so I realized that simply just reading would be faster.
Interviewee: as well.
Interviewee: If a video is too often I will typically.
Interviewee: skip over.
Vivian Nguyen: hey how much time would you spend on this task, usually early how much time would you spend on this specific separate.
Vivian Nguyen: Three things and you like post.
Interviewee: Mostly like i'd say it takes.
Interviewee: About 30 minutes I just read a little bit.
Interviewee: I don't think I have any clothes, but that's simply because.
Interviewee: I just.
Interviewee: I just I just typically all the questions i've had because it's been around for so long, already there, so I don't I don't really have to post.
Vivian Nguyen: Would you ever see yourself posting.
uh.
Interviewee: yeah i'd say i'd see myself posting.
Interviewee: I don't think.
Interviewee: I other than requesting a mentor.
Interviewee: i'm.
Interviewee: Typically, I I didn't have to post, because I would just go through the mentoring process.
Interviewee: I actually I have posted once and then someone someone answered.
Interviewee: Specific like.
Interviewee: If if this the man or if this happen, or if this happens, then you typically do this this or this and it's mostly like it's like a logical.
Interviewee: logical way of saying call.
Interviewee: they've told me a logical way of.
Interviewee: going through a specific situation and in the game.
Vivian Nguyen: interesting.
Vivian Nguyen: Are you satisfied with the method you used for this activity and.
Vivian Nguyen: How do you decide if you like, mastered what you want to learn.
Interviewee: How do I decide what I mastered.
Interviewee: Or if i've mastered.
Vivian Nguyen: Yes, if you mastered.
Interviewee: So typically.
Interviewee: If you repeat the first part of the question.
Vivian Nguyen: Are you satisfied with the method you use for this activity.
Interviewee: Yes, I would say that I am satisfied.
Interviewee: Simply because it's.
Interviewee: Like I do end up learning and I do come out with a positive result, I did get what I wanted, and then I would apply it in the actual game and then.
Interviewee: And then also regarding if i've mastered simply because it is a competitive game on the higher ranks there you go the more that you improve, you will see.
Interviewee: numbers to display how much you, you have improved, and the more you play the more it'll show your average set of skill and once you have reached a high enough i'm reading I guess you could say, then you could say that, like yes, I have mastered at what I am doing.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay um.
Vivian Nguyen: I guess like, why did you choose um read it, and by the same to you.
Interviewee: um.
Interviewee: It looks like there are other websites.
Interviewee: To.
Interviewee: Better yourself, I guess, you could say like.
Interviewee: like this one, this website it's a.
Interviewee: template because.
Interviewee: it's a it's a little more confusing I guess you could say it's it's not as in depth as i'd like regarding.
Interviewee: Like.
Interviewee: let's say, for example in this in this subreddit there are they go pretty in depth and.
Interviewee: It like maps out every single situation that you could possibly be are like most of the situations, you could possibly be in but for this one it's mostly it's a little the ui is a little harder to use.
Interviewee: there's also like.
Interviewee: it's like it's not it doesn't tell you like.
Interviewee: It just tell it just tells you like the top layer of things and that's typically how it goes with a lot of the websites.
Interviewee: And I found that read it, you know I just because, like you, you're you're you're searching the questions that the muscle of the websites don't really have a search function for typical like form questions on so I found that just.
Interviewee: Just just using the suburb is the most optimal way.
Vivian Nguyen: interesting.
Interviewee: All and I would say, like the.
Vivian Nguyen: design.
Interviewee: is pretty pretty simple it's easy to understand, rather than having to go through like let's say this website, we have to explore, you have to try to find out.
Interviewee: If the try to find out what what everything means, and I think that sometimes it is a little too much for people who don't understand what's going on.
Interviewee: It could be better, and this is typically how it goes for most of the websites.
Vivian Nguyen: Interesting that you find the website like it's harder to use.
Vivian Nguyen: then read it.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay, so now i'm going to like move on and I will not ask you to demonstrate so activities on.
Vivian Nguyen: To step two activities that are more music learning related and the first one would be.
Vivian Nguyen: About like learning or brushing up on your skills in an instrument, and the second one is learning a new song on a particular instrument of choice, so let's do that, and when you're doing these tasks use whatever websites and toys and you lead us, and please think aloud.
Vivian Nguyen: So yeah the first task can you show me how you would go about finding resources on learning or brushing up on your skills in a musical instrument.
Interviewee: So you are like brushing I typically just use music score.
Interviewee: Right now, as this.
Interviewee: is like the best way currently if i'm just like off the top my head.
Interviewee: i'd say that having the ability to let's say like.
Interviewee: Having the ability to like see the song played out, but in a robotic manner is a useful i'd say are there could be improvements but.
Vivian Nguyen: Would you say that new score helps you learn an instrument so.
Vivian Nguyen: Oh, wanted to learn violin again give me a score.
Interviewee: No, no, used to be a school.
Interviewee: If I want to learn violin again, I think I just.
Interviewee: The first seven things that product is just like.
Interviewee: The basics of learning violent.
Interviewee: On and then I probably watch.
Interviewee: A shorter video on.
Interviewee: I probably I probably watched like it felt like a.
Interviewee: Like a like a pact video short video if I know that learning the violin is last step, so it looks like the first episode, as you can see.
Interviewee: Put the layout it tells you all the all the basics at the bottom now let's say like oh no the the proper way to hold the violin shoulder as a stream all the different strings.
Interviewee: Other rather than this one where it's just like less than one Tony i'm less inclined to click it simply because it's 12 minutes long and only shows you how to hold the violin and.
Interviewee: And then, so I probably watch the video and then.
Interviewee: If i'm still interested I probably scroll down, maybe now would be how but this one, probably this one and.
Interviewee: This one was pretty interesting it's pretty simple it looks like.
Interviewee: It has all the basics out of need and when i'm trying to learn a new one i'm trying to rewind violin as well.
Interviewee: And then yeah it looks like the sort of Sub site looks like it has everything like an faq the type of type of thing when i'm trying to learn the violent again and that's typically typically do.
Interviewee: As I currently I feel like if I there are not many like resources that I know that can help me, I would say.
Vivian Nguyen: I see.
Vivian Nguyen: What it looks like violent online has a ton of articles on different things, so I think.
Vivian Nguyen: it's pretty.
Vivian Nguyen: informative.
Vivian Nguyen: Yes, yes um.
Vivian Nguyen: How did you decide what method to use.
Interviewee: Just a Google search function is the easiest.
Interviewee: Whatever came up that cat caught my eye like let's say, for example, the YouTube video, it would be like seeing how the length of the video, it will also show the sub sections.
Interviewee: Basically, to see if the video is pretty simple to find out if there is a video I was actually looking for and then.
Interviewee: By one I like I want to learn more of more like in depth way I scroll down to seal website, the catch my eye.
Interviewee: Like the other one was wiki how pulling up with the House and blue because.
Interviewee: it's not like.
Interviewee: That it's not it's not what i'm looking for I guess you know i'm not really sure why it, I just want something a little more.
Interviewee: website dedicated to an instrument learning or an instrument i'd say and then going to this website, it looks like.
Interviewee: I think I think that could be better about this website, simply because it only has pictures, maybe like a short video on how like it comes into that position or.
Interviewee: Short video on just like explain, or like a one to two minute video explain everything that's going on here could be implemented, however, I do think that the pictures are very necessary when you're trying to learn the new instrument.
Vivian Nguyen: See.
Vivian Nguyen: I guess like how much time would you spend a day learning an instrument like through this method.
Interviewee: I think that in the beginning, it definitely takes a little longer.
Interviewee: Just from my experience so probably take like.
Interviewee: Two hours a day for me to be comfortable with where i'm at especially.
Interviewee: Since it does take a little longer for me to learn, I think.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay, and are you satisfied with like the videos and website you encountered.
Vivian Nguyen: And how do you decide if you mastered like.
Vivian Nguyen: The violin or how would you like how.
Vivian Nguyen: Do you evaluate.
Interviewee: I would evaluate the by.
Interviewee: Just killing my comfort ability of whatever like whatever task i'm trying to do.
Interviewee: I figured that I am pretty satisfied with this method, simply because I don't really have a way to.
Interviewee: If i'm trying to sell flooring I don't really have any other real methods it's not really talked about.
Interviewee: You kind of just do this thing on your own.
Interviewee: i'm not sure if I have any other other thing.
Vivian Nguyen: And the first part of the question was.
Vivian Nguyen: Are you satisfied.
Vivian Nguyen: satisfied with this website, I am satisfied with this website.
Interviewee: On simply because it has all the tips that you might need it also has.
Interviewee: All most or all the information as I can't really tell right now, but it looks like it has all the information that you need.
Interviewee: to learn the new.
Interviewee: The new the new the new instrument setting.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay, so why did you choose like googling and why did you think that's a good idea.
Interviewee: it's the most accessible way to try and figure out your whatever needs that you may need.
Interviewee: it's not like.
Interviewee: Everyone is talking about like oh this this specific website is good for.
Interviewee: Music learning or instrument learning.
Interviewee: Just like.
Interviewee: It has it has everything they you'd probably want.
Interviewee: You just use keep keep skimming through the searches and, eventually, you will probably find what you're looking for.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay, well, thank you for showing me how you perform this task.
Vivian Nguyen: The next one is more about learning a song, so how would you go about learning a new song.
Vivian Nguyen: for finding the sheet music or like from finding out what you want to learn and finding the sheet music to learning it to its fullest and preferably an instrument that you ready, so the piano.
Interviewee: Okay.
um.
Interviewee: So typically I.
Interviewee: use my phone, unfortunately, as I don't have really like an iPad or like a bigger screen accessible to me right now um.
Interviewee: And then I just use.
Interviewee: Like.
Interviewee: On on YouTube I come across like.
Interviewee: A specific like.
Interviewee: A specific song that I i'm interested in and then.
Interviewee: I typically look through the description of it see if I can find anything regarding where I could find the sheet music.
Interviewee: oftentimes I will find myself using music score as well i'm simply because it's the most it's The first thing is the most popular one, and I feel like there are many different iterations of the sets to music the Channel and, and so I will.
Interviewee: The will.
Interviewee: Just like so typically I just like.
Interviewee: let's say right here on be like okay i'm interested.
Interviewee: Okay, so after.
Interviewee: After like figure out the song, I want to play i'll just.
Interviewee: On this on this small small screen, I will try my best to learn.
Interviewee: Just by having whatever I have.
Interviewee: And so i'm just like okay so i'll skim over asked him over the music i'll see it like this any sort of.
Interviewee: Things that catch my eye I look at look at the key signature I look at the entire music, if anything, seems out of place, but it looks like the song is pretty.
Interviewee: Pretty pretty pretty simple and in the rhythm sounds in a.
Interviewee: yeah and a rhythm sense there's not there's no like key abnormalities or any sort of symbols that might not i'm not I might not understand if I did have any.
Interviewee: Any questions about understanding the simple or understand music I probably just search online, just like a general description of what the symbol is or like um I probably also just.
Interviewee: click on the music score.
Interviewee: The belt plate, since the since the last time we'll play the music for you, I could see like Okay, this is, this is probably what it means, if I can, if I listen, listen to the song.
Interviewee: So I will.
Interviewee: Look at the music i'll.
Interviewee: Have a picture in my head like what's probably supposed to sound like and then I will end the point real quick.
Interviewee: So I look bad things about having a small screen is having to scroll down every line.
Interviewee: which I do find a little irritating I think that maybe if you do have a small screen, one of the things that could be implemented is playing at your own temple and the screen will automatically scroll down for you.
Interviewee: In in a set temple so it will follow, along with where you're at as well, and I think that that is also will help you keep the hope you keep yourself rhythmically in check, we show, all in all else will be a very enlightening, I think, and then, so you just get.
Interviewee: And then that's typically how I would play the song and I keep playing it repetitively until I feel like I don't have to pause or during the song or I don't have to like i'm just like studying i'd say.
Vivian Nguyen: I see, would you say, like the scrolling process is kind of like cumbersome and.
Vivian Nguyen: Like as opposed to like paper she means that you can have it all laid out in front of you.
Interviewee: Yes, yes, this is um I also feel like if if it did have like that's rolling function in the temple it also saves paper for you and.
Interviewee: it's also like.
Interviewee: it's it's tedious to do and it ruins the whole atmosphere, they trying to create when playing music.
Vivian Nguyen: So, how did you decide what matters to you.
Interviewee: i'm.
Just.
Interviewee: Like a quick quick quick the quickest and easiest thing to do is just to use new score if I if I really wanted to find a better website i'm sure that I could i'm.
Interviewee: New score just has like the notes out there, I think that if you're trying to like find a PDF or it's like the typical you'll find a PDF version of.
Interviewee: Music, but it ends up a little too small, simply because they photocopy it it's on older website, just for the top of the music and Plus, you have to zoom in a lot more.
Interviewee: And they'll have you know how the scrolling lot more as well, and also like if you don't have a printer available to like this is the most, this is the easiest thing to do.
Vivian Nguyen: I see, so you don't have a printer.
Currently.
Interviewee: Otherwise I would try to print out the music.
Vivian Nguyen: How much time would you spend a day learning a song in this like not that.
Interviewee: I would say, like an hour, simply because learning a song will take longer a lot longer than actual.
Interviewee: going through going through the song one time will take significantly longer than just like.
Interviewee: Once you've like be super comfortable level, so I probably take like if I lose track of myself I probably take two hours but, on average, I will usually take one hour i'd say.
Interviewee: Well, for multiple days like three days in a row.
Vivian Nguyen: I see I see um.
Vivian Nguyen: Are you satisfied with the method is for this activity and.
Vivian Nguyen: Like in this context, have.
Vivian Nguyen: How do you decide if you mastered that song.
Interviewee: um.
Interviewee: I would say that i'm satisfied simply because.
Interviewee: It has mostly everything I need.
Interviewee: I don't think that, like, I do think that the the schooling of this game to those bugged me a little bit, but there's nothing that I can really do about it right now.
Interviewee: And as we're mastering the music once i've stopped playing.
Interviewee: Once i've stopped like stuttering and pausing during the music want to reach like a comfort of like kind of like when you when you've mastered music it's like you matt you like kind of memorize the notes what comes next.
Interviewee: And it's like and then i'll feel like that, yes.
Vivian Nguyen: I see Thank you um.
Vivian Nguyen: And I see why did you choose to use mustache and why is it good.
Interviewee: Or why Why did I choose.
Interviewee: means that.
Vivian Nguyen: Now I feel good, like other.
Vivian Nguyen: options.
Interviewee: um.
Interviewee: I just I just.
Interviewee: I don't think i've really like looked into finding a much better website, this is like typically, in my opinion, the most.
Interviewee: Up to date way to learn the music i'd say are like finding new music, it has all different, all the different people trying to create their own sheet music for the song how they interpret it and then.
Interviewee: yeah that's.
Interviewee: that's what it's it's pretty simple it has everything you're looking for regarding like um how song should be played how.
Interviewee: Just like how it sounds i'm or like.
Interviewee: On that's that's about it it's pretty pretty simple simple simple thing to do.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay, so now i'm going to move on to more general questions.
Vivian Nguyen: So do you ever record your music learning and, if so, how do you documented.
Interviewee: I.
Interviewee: In the past I have recorded myself i'm.
Interviewee: Playing other than like.
Interviewee: When I do record I typically want to.
Interviewee: Watch I play if i'm making any mistakes or if this sounds weird because, like when you're playing you often miss some things that you're trying to.
Interviewee: That made the optimist things that that sounds a little weird.
Interviewee: If anything, I will.
Interviewee: I may not document it on a piece of paper on actually I will document on that sheet music like hey okay like just like a reminder, when I come across this again like just reminder like Okay, this is like a G sharp or like.
Interviewee: You played this this throng know so I just like market on top like this is just like a T shirt or something.
Interviewee: And it's typically typically how it goes.
Vivian Nguyen: They see.
Vivian Nguyen: That makes sense.
Vivian Nguyen: So you don't have like written notes, or do you have any written notes.
Interviewee: I don't.
Interviewee: Particularly have any way to note, I would say that, like.
Interviewee: Just like writing on the actual on the actual like music, I found this just like like simple life meant like simple, I can see.
Interviewee: That I would have like markings on like a This is like like I feel scribble as like a like scribble to make this seem like Okay, this is becoming slower.
Interviewee: I put like a even though it's not stated in the music I figured that like if I put like a D Christians are like a crescendo it would be like a.
Interviewee: It would sound better, even though it's not implemented in the actual music as well, sometimes, if I have if i'm confused about rhythm I put one and two and three and four, and just so like I can like find a better if I like just like and like match the notes with the rhythm i'd say.
Vivian Nguyen: You brought up an interesting point about like writing on your sheet music.
Vivian Nguyen: When you're learning your song earlier on, Miss score you did not or you're not able to.
Vivian Nguyen: Particularly right on that sheet is a great.
Vivian Nguyen: If you think that would be like a helpful thing.
Interviewee: I think that would be an extremely helpful thing to have when you're.
Interviewee: On your way yes.
Interviewee: Just so like you will probably forget, you know when you're learning the song or when you're playing to the song again.
Interviewee: And it'll it'll take longer for you to to to to really put that like integrate it into your memory.
Vivian Nguyen: Do you think that's like a feature that music or needs.
Interviewee: yeah I would say that it's something that you would.
muscadines.
Interviewee: Because i'm like what's it like you're living harder song.
Interviewee: it's not like you, will you will see there's just so much going on your mind like when you come across it again it's probably not going to be the first week and good.
Interviewee: And so you probably have to play it again and play it again like until like it definitely takes like four times as long to fully master the mistake the thing you might have made or.
Interviewee: Really, remember, like okay this part gets thought or this person gets softer even though sustaining sheet music.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay, so look.
Vivian Nguyen: Like so now we're going to move on to like the.
Vivian Nguyen: Activity questions.
Vivian Nguyen: So what is the most difficult or what was the most difficult part of trying to find these resources.
Interviewee: i'm.
Just like.
Interviewee: i'm the most difficult part of not having any like real like prior knowledge, simply because the popularity of.
Interviewee: websites that the help you learn I guess you can say no one really talks about it it's not really like a social thing so maybe like finding like the best website i'd say it's probably the hardest.
Vivian Nguyen: One second.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay, so tell me, have you ever had any problems with learning music.
Interviewee: Have any ever had any problems.
Interviewee: Other than like your typical mistakes.
Vivian Nguyen: yeah other than like mistakes.
um.
Interviewee: I haven't had any problems that i'd say maybe like a typical problem would be like instrument accessibility.
Interviewee: Is is definitely one of the things.
Interviewee: That people might have.
Interviewee: But, for me, I don't have any problems.
Vivian Nguyen: yeah I do agree instrument accessibility, this really.
Vivian Nguyen: Is a problem yeah when I was learning clarinet in middle school band we I can't I come from, like a relatively poor family, so it was very hard to find a very affordable clarinet.
Interviewee: yeah.
Vivian Nguyen: So when I got a really cheap, one that didn't sound really good.
Vivian Nguyen: yeah, so I think that also like affects your success in your music learning process to.
Vivian Nguyen: next question is how'd you figure out if there are any of this, I have a better learning outcome than others like, are there any special tricks or techniques that they use on their.
Vivian Nguyen: To do.
Vivian Nguyen: You could retain and they're like website, but what does it go to see i'm.
Interviewee: Not i'm not sure I think the.
Interviewee: Regarding like muse score or choosing choosing to new score or like a PDF website, it would.
Interviewee: Definitely, be they definitely have their ups and downs are pros and cons like for the PDF website on there it's usually like fingering or like they'll tell you like how like how the song is meant to be played.
Interviewee: Regarding your fingering choice, the most like optimal way, but that way, thus you won't like kind of your come across yourself i'm stuttering because, like Okay, like, I have to pause for like readjust and it was just like tell you like Okay, this is, like all right i'll just like show you.
Interviewee: like this it's a smooth motion I guess you could say i'd rather on new score there's no fingerlings from from what i've come across there's no real fingerlings.
Interviewee: And so, if i'm like confused about something it won't really tell me the optimal way to put my hand on the keyboard unless I have to like pause and like think about like okay.
Interviewee: i'll probably have to put my hand I like something you know.
Vivian Nguyen: uh huh.
Vivian Nguyen: Do you have any social activities such as forums or groups to learn or get inspiration from.
Vivian Nguyen: Currently, for like music, are you.
Interviewee: Currently.
Interviewee: Just like currently i'd say like it's mostly, just like the Games, they play, but in the in the past, it was mostly.
Interviewee: In the past.
Interviewee: In the past that's mostly like.
Interviewee: I found myself at many recitals due to my piano teacher.
Interviewee: I felt like most people don't really have that accessibility to like see other to play the song it really like.
Interviewee: expands your world I guess you could say and.
Interviewee: regards to like what you might want to play like okay this this person, you know play this song and it sounds really, really nice like I want to try playing it now, which has happened to be.
Interviewee: Like two times two or two or three times and I did end up playing and playing at the same recital playing the same song.
Vivian Nguyen: interesting.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay we're gonna move on to.
Vivian Nguyen: Some different questions.
Vivian Nguyen: Can you tell me about a music learning experience that took you a long time.
Interviewee: Oh.
Interviewee: The music learning experience, I would say, like this, just like.
Interviewee: If I found a song really difficult or like because, like it's just so.
Interviewee: That there's just like too much going on, it probably took me longer, but other than that I don't really have any like.
Interviewee: Difficulties either it's just like just repetitive practice.
Interviewee: and, eventually, you will you will then you eventually get to where you want to be.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay, is there any method for music learning that you find yourself repeatedly doing.
Interviewee: i'm.
Interviewee: Like I will I will go back like if if I like make mistake and like I keep making mistakes, I will just focus on that subsection of music and just like play it from one point to a different point in that music and then, just like just keep practicing over and over again until I have.
Interviewee: Political master like be comfortable with the was my without play.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay, are there any kinds of music learning where you do not use the Internet and, if so, how did you learn like your instrument or your song.
Interviewee: uh.
Interviewee: I would say that I came across my cancer to connections and I think that oftentimes people don't have that same connection with people, so I think what I had was pretty pretty rare.
Interviewee: As she's not it's not like someone who posts themselves online post themselves online it's just like you know this person and you just like keep you just keep referring people to that that person.
Vivian Nguyen: I see so mostly like through your piano teacher you got like the.
Vivian Nguyen: Like the shoes that i'm seeing like in the background right.
Yes.
Vivian Nguyen: that's all from your piano teacher and not from the Internet.
Interviewee: Yes, I think that an account you provided me a lot of things that I did not have to think about myself, and I think that those three minutes.
Vivian Nguyen: Okay um so I guess it's all it's been like an hour already, we can wrap up um but my last question is, if you could create a magical tool that would allow you to learn music, as you want what what such tool what was such a tool be and how would it work and what areas would it cover.
Interviewee: A magical tool to help you with learning.
Interviewee: um.
Interviewee: me one one moment.
Interviewee: This.
Interviewee: Is a hard question.
Interviewee: may be like.
Interviewee: So absurd it's like it's not really like i'm kind of like a total, just like the ability to like.
Interviewee: slow down time and I really sure.
Interviewee: Just like because, like you're playing so like i'm sure like you play doing you're.
Interviewee: Just like.
Interviewee: you're gonna like it's like this pirates like really good i'm probably like you just use place Lord girl like i'm.
Vivian Nguyen: Do you think that would make the learning process a lot easier and how would it work.
Interviewee: That a way to.
Interviewee: For learning for the learning process to be easier, is to just.
Interviewee: Like.
Vivian Nguyen: Try to inspire you like.
Vivian Nguyen: A something that's kind of like new score, but you can like write on it and, like you can also.
Vivian Nguyen: Have it automatically scroll for you right like that's pretty cool.
Vivian Nguyen: Yes, right so something like that right.
Interviewee: yeah something like that something like that the ability to to like.
Interviewee: write on.
Interviewee: The sheet music pages will turn automatically for you.
Interviewee: and
Interviewee: yeah that that is such a good good point I completely forgot about that.
Vivian Nguyen: I mean if there's anything else that you think would be really helpful like.
Interviewee: any sort of like tips I guess you could say like on common hard spots like comments on the side on like how like Maybe you can practice this this like said.
Interviewee: said part I realized that like one of the things that also helped me in the past that I would have never figured out for myself must have a teacher said something, it would probably be like to play a.
Interviewee: song in a different rhythm and so, once you come back to the normal rhythm, like the easier rhythms since it's just like a staple like.
Interviewee: Sound I guess you could say it's like it becomes easier to play and I feel like that tip helped me, and I would have never thought of it myself, so I think having other other like credible people telling you like on how to like improve would be very nice on the side.
Vivian Nguyen: As.
Vivian Nguyen: i've been asking you a lot of questions.
Vivian Nguyen: Is there anything you want to ask me before we end.
Interviewee: Up no I don't think I.
Vivian Nguyen: don't waiting okay well Thank you so much for your time and participation, I know this is a very long session, but it was very insightful ah i'll end the recording.
Vivian Nguyen: And yeah.